Alaska is unlike any place I’ve been to in the US before.  While Alaska is the furthest state to visit from the mainland compared to any other state (minus maybe Hawaii depending on where you are coming from), Alaskans seem to like their independence and solitude up North.  To Alaskans, the rest of mainland U.S. is just considered the “lower 48.”

We flew to PDX (Portland’s airport) after work on July 3rd using our Southwest Companion pass.  From there, we made the long haul up to Anchorage arriving late at night on July 3rd.  Thankfully, our 8 person group was all there when we arrived and much to our surprise, it was still light out at 11 pm!  This was our first glimpse of the very long days that occur in Alaska during the summer.  We immediately knew that we would have lots of flexibility backpacking if it is still light enough to see without a headlamp late into the night.  As soon as the clock struck midnight, we said exchanged some “Happy July 4th!”s with our rental car company sales associate.  From there, we jumped into our rental cars and began our journey through moose country up to Denali National Park.

We took our turns driving through the night up to Denali.  If you stayed awake during the entire drive, you probably would have seen around 30 moose on the road.  If you took just one driving shift, you were certain to see at least 3 or 4.  Moose are pretty rare sighting down in the lower 48 (unless you’re in Montana), but up in Alaska, they are a dime a dozen.

After getting to the Wilderness Center at Denali and planning our itinerary for the next few days, we were ready to take the long bus drive into the park and EXPLORE the vast landscape and terrain of this amazing National Park.

On the bus ride through the park alone, we saw Caribou, Moose, Grizzly Bears (OH YEAH!), Golden Eagles, Ptarmigans, Grouses, and Dall sheep to name a few.  Getting to see all of these big animals alongside the big mountains is what made this one of my favorite trips and my absolute favorite National Park that I have visited.

The unique thing about Denali National Park is that is has almost no trails through the park.  It is entirely wilderness backpacking.  This means that you can’t download offline maps and double check trails and mileage.  Instead, you have to have a topographical map to help you estimate mileage and elevation.  You also need a good compass to help you know the direction you are heading.

Two other must haves in this type of country are bear canisters and bear spray.  Bear canisters are a fairly common requirement even in black bear country (such as the Sierra Nevada mountain range in California and the Rocky Mountains in Colorado).  However, bear spray is specifically required in grizzly territory.  Grizzlies are known to be more aggressive than black bears, and are not something to mess around with.  Bear spray is basically industrial strength mace meant to shock and sting bears (but not harm them permanently) in case that you get charged by a bear.  While this is a real concern to have, common sense and good training from the Wilderness Center before heading out into the wilderness will both prevent 99% of bear attacks.  To put this into perspective, there has only been one human death by a grizzly bear since Denali National Park’s inception in 1917.  And even that one death in over 100 years was caused from a tourist trying to get a closer and closer camera shot of the grizzly.  If that photographer would have used common sense and left the bear alone, he would probably still be alive today.  Again common sense will solve 99% of bear attacks.

Thankfully, we never had to use our bear spray while we were out in the wilderness by ourselves.  We only ever saw grizzlies from the safety of the bus, half a valley away from these beautiful creatures.  However, we did get to see immense beauty and incredible landscapes, rivers, sky, and daylight.  This is a place where pictures are worth a thousand words, so I won’t delve too much more into the specifics other than to note that this is an absolutely b e a u t i f u l national park and bears should not deter you from visiting.

After we finished a few days of incredible backpacking in Denali and got a few beers and bison burgers at a local brewery, we opted to go down to Kenai Fjords national park.  While I didn’t think that Denali could be topped, I would certainly say that my experience at Kenai Fjords was nothing short of spectacular.  We saw an equally amazing variety of animals including sea lions, harbor seals, puffins, whales, doll porpoises, sea otters, and (maybe my favorite animal sighting of the trip) a bald eagle. ☺  So many incredible animals.  And getting to see the rumbling and crumbling of icebergs was such a special moment.

Overall, this is a national park that should be a must on everyone’s bucket list.  Alaska is an incredible place, and I can’t wait to go back to visit someday!

##### Money Saving Tips Used This Trip:
* Use Southwest Companion Pass to fly to Pacific Northwest (Typically Portland or Seattle).  From there, book a regular Flight up to Anchorage.  Same with the return flight.
* Backpack in Denali National Park and camp in the wilderness areas for free to save money on accommodations.
* Split the cost of a rental car between 4 people.
