Everyone that goes to or hears about Southeast Asia typically thinks of Thailand or Vietnam.  But nestled between its two well-known siblings is the equally as impressive country of Laos.  We weren’t originally trying to go to Laos on this trip, and we also did not know much about this country at the time.  But we found great flight deals for this destination and weren’t having luck with other Southeast Asia destinations over the Thanksgiving holiday week, so we decided to give it a shot.

As we researched more, we were impressed with how much there was to offer.  We flew into Luang Prabang in the northern part of the country.  While smaller than Laos’s capital – Vientiane – the decidedly French history in this town was charming yet quite different than it’s brother to the West – Thailand.  Due to the heavy French influence, you find a lot more pastries, breads, and sandwiches compared to Thailand where you find more noodles, soups, and curries.  The variety and mix of foods in Laos reminded me a lot of the fusion foods that you can find in the San Francisco Bay Area – always mixing and matching the foods from surrounding regions.

Much like the cheaper areas of Thailand or Vietnam, Laos is also a very cheap country compared to the United States.  In fact, most of Laos is even considered cheap by Southeast Asian standards.  But don’t let that fool you.  The people are still friendly and open to tourists coming to see their great country.  

After exploring Luang Prabang and its surroundings for a few days, we were ready to make the bus ride down to Vang Vieng which we knew was going to be one of the highlights of the trip for us.  Vang Vieng is an even smaller town than Luang Prabang.  It is somewhat known as a tourist party town not dissimilar to Pai in the mountains of northern Thailand.   Equally as mountainous and beautiful is the city of Vang Vieng.  

With many outdoor activities to do here, it is hard to go wrong.  You can rent a tube and go tubing down a river while stopping at various bars and parties along the edge of the water.  Most things like this that you may do when you’re in a third world country are at your own risk, so it is important to take some precautions such as:
watch your step as most places can be very slippery
be mindful of your alcohol consumption
don’t drink the 50 cent locally made whiskey (Elena learned this lesson the hard way ☺)

But the tubing doesn’t stop there.  We also did a tour the following day that was comprised of tubing through a cave system, kayaking around some beautiful landscapes, spelunking through more caves, a small hike, a series of 5 zip lines, and even a free lunch.  The whole tour, I believe was around $18 USD.  If you go to popular tourist destinations in the United States such as Hawaii, you’d be lucky if you could pay 10x or 15x that amount.  So, it’s hard to complain when you get such a great day of exploring and vacationing for a fraction of the price.

Another popular thing to do in Vang Vieng that we unfortunately did not have enough time to do is go on a hot air balloon ride.  The locals claim it is one of the cheapest and most beautiful air balloon rides you can get in the world.  After exploring this beautiful area of our planet the day before, I’m sure the views would have been incredible.  We’ll have to save that for another time.

Overall, we definitely recommend visiting Laos if you are doing a Southeast Asia trek.  It was certainly one of our favorite Southeast Asian destinations.  Until next time!

#### Money Saving Tips Used This Trip:
* Travel to a country where the US Dollar goes a long way.
* Be flexible on travel destinations and jump on a cheap flight when you find one.
