Gooooooooooood morning, Vietnam!

As anyone who has done or who knows about the backpacking scene in Southeast Asia, it is one of the most famous areas in the world for budget backpackers.  Accommodation and food are both cheap and most countries are very safe.  This absolutely is the same case for one of the most popular countries to visit on the Southwest Asia treck – Vietnam.  While Elena and I only got to visit northern Vietnam, the country left quite an impression on us.  We were blessed with great coffee in Hanoi, amazing trecks through the hills of the Sapa region, and an amazing two day cruise throughout Halong Bay.

We arrived in Hanoi in the middle of the day on Sunday, which seems to be the go-to arrival time for us for all of our trips to Southeast Asia given that we always pick a flight that leaves San Francisco between 10 pm and 1 am on Friday after work.  That middle of the day time always gives us a few hours to poke around the city before heading out.  We always prefer to leave the big cities near the airport for the end of our trip so that it leaves fewer variables that could go wrong right before a major flight back to the U.S.  

After checking out the very walkable city of Hanoi for some time, we decided to book an overnight sleeper train to Sapa region – a very popular several day detour from Hanoi that most budget backpackers don’t miss.  This sleeper train was magical.  While we booked a budget 4-car sleeper (imagine a very small room with two bunkbeds on each side of a narrow hallway), we got lucky and were the only two people in our 4-car sleeper.  We knew we would be tired and a bit jet-lagged from all the flying, so we knew that we would easily sleep wherever we could.  So, we weren’t afraid at all of the sleeper.  I happened to bring my mattress pad, ear plugs, eye mask, and melatonin which should knock out even the most coffee-induced Elena.  The train ride was a perfect 8 hour train ride, which couldn’t be better for a good night’s sleep. ☺

We woke up to a gorgeous sunrise in the beautiful city of Sapa.  We already had our Sapa trekking tour booked before we arrived (2 day and 3 day trecking trips are the most popular duration), so our guide met us at the station.  The tour provided breakfast, lunch, dinner, accommodation, and the most important ingredient – local “Happy Water.”  

What we noticed immediately is that all of the tour guides and many of the tourism jobs in Vietnam were led or handled by women.  We later visited a Women’s History Museum and found out that the Vietnam War back in the 50s, 60s, and 70s left many families without their husbands and fathers.  This in turn led to a rise in women in the workplace in Vietnam.  Today, the Vietnamese men in the Sapa region tend to be farmers and avoid all contact with tourists – trying to preserve their culture.  Meanwhile, the women tend to be the breadwinners working in tourism and taking care of the family.  It is a very rare and very incredible instance where women tend to hold more power than men in many ways in this country.

The leader of our group trek was an elderly, short (4’ tall maybe?), Vietnamese woman from a nearby village who spoke very broken English, but enough to get most points across – especially when it came to the favorite local pastime of sipping “Happy Water” late into the night.  Happy Water is what the locals colloquially referred to as their local rice wine.  She and her friends were also some of the happiest and most smiley people I have ever come across.  After feeding us breakfast, they led us on a hike throughout the fields and mountains of the Sapa Region throughout the day.  We got to see locals, kids, livestock, animals, houses and everything else you might imagine from several mountain villages.  Equally as interesting, there were many villages with many different “people” or tribes as you might call them.  For instance, one village located walking distance to another might have a totally different language, clothing attire, customs and traditions.  From a Western perspective, this can be quite mind-blowing.  This isn’t as crazy for me seeing as how I’ve lived in Ghana in West Africa where there are somewhere around 250 languages spoken in a country which geographically is just a little smaller than the state of Oregon.  It is good to get outside the American bubble every now and again and realize how different many parts of the world can be to your homeland.

After hiking a few mountainous miles throughout the day, our group of around 15 hikers arrived at our accommodation for the night.  We were amazed by phenomenal views, an amazingly large cabin which held many large rooms and had plenty of showers and flushing toilets to everyone’s amazement.  We were soon relaxing, refreshed from a nice show, and were enjoying sharing stories with the company of everyone there.  The tour provided a filling dinner which was needed for the Happy Water debauchery which was soon to occur.  The locals did not need any dessert.  Happy Water was their desert.  They soon came out with trays and trays of small (1 oz sided?) shot glasses full of happy water.  Like any locally made rice wine or palm wine, you never quite know what percentage of alcohol will be in each batch, so it is good to take your time drinking these to see how your body reacts to the alcohol.  Unfortunately for us, as soon as we finished shooting our first Happy Water, the giggly local ladies immediately poured us another round and insisted we keep drinking.  This happened for 2, 3, 4…18, 19 rounds maybe?  The local ladies seemed to have an iron stomach for the beverage and probably started drinking it when they were teenagers.  Needless to say, it was a fun night of hanging out with new friends and celebrating all of our diversity of stories, upbringing and culture.

After a few more days of hiking, we took a sleeper bus back to Hanoi to prepare for our two day cruise in Halong Bay.  After hiking all day for a few days, it was nice to have a tour bus with a funny tour guide, taking us to a cruise.  Elena and I have never done a cruise before.  And I think both of us would say that we are definitely not cruise people.  But this was one of the cheapest cruises we had ever seen before, and it seemed that doing a cruise in Halong Bay was the thing to do in the area, so we decided to give it a shot.

It turned out to be an amazing decision.  They had a cruise packed full of adventures including snorkeling, cave exploring, kayaking, checking out a Pearl Farm, and diving from the top of the boat.  And this was all within a two day tour.  The tour gave us amazing food, amazing views and we would highly recommend.

Finally, we headed back to Hanoi for a weekend of exploring the city in more detail.  I must say that I’m not a huge coffee fan, but Hanoi must have had the biggest variety of coffee that I have ever seen.  From everything from banana coffee, to Vietnamese drip coffee, to egg coffee, or even BEER coffee, it was all incredible.  They certainly love their sweet coffees but also the variety was incredible.  Another remarkable thing about Old Town, Hanoi is that its streets are closed to four wheel vehicles on the weekends.  That means, only mopeds, scooters and foot traffic are allowed in the city center on the weekends.  This makes it a great time to explore without feeling that a car is going to hit you every 10 seconds.  The city was absolutely amazing and the people in this part of the world are some of the best!  I can’t wait to go back and visit again soon!

#### Money Saving Tips:
* Take overnight sleeper train to Sapa to kill two birds with one stone – save on accommodation and travel time.
* Stay in hostels.
* Eat street food from local vendors.
* Bring drinks (water, beer, wine, etc.) onto the Halong Bay cruise ship with you so you don’t have to pay crazy prices for bottled water or expensive glasses of wine.



