As much as I am not a fan of the typical Californian who only ever leaves the state to vacation in Hawaii, I must say that I absolutely fell in love with the little island of Kauai and all of its charm, simplicity and beauty.

Kauai is incredible.  With landscapes, beaches, canyons, poke, free camping, waterfalls, and great locals, it’s hard to resist the urge to move here.  To get from one side of the island to the other only takes you around 45 minutes, and you’ll only see Hawaii license plates the entire time.  But despite being small, this island packs a punch.  We were lucky enough to have some friends who used to live on this island and could tell us all of the great local secrets.  One of those secrets is that some of the biggest celebrating that happens on the island takes place on Memorial Day weekend which happened to be the first weekend we arrived.  Locals would display huge banners with their children’s or student’s names on them, congratulating them on graduating high school.  The locals all seemed to pitch huge camps and shade structures in the local beach parks (where we happened to camp every night for free) and were celebrating all weekend with good friends, good family (ohana), free concerts, live bands, luau’s, and of course the sound of waves crashing against the shores.

These beach parks must have been some of the best cheap/free camping I have ever experienced.  They all had freshwater showers, bathrooms, clear views of the stars, and easy access to the ocean.  You could literally see all the stars in the sky and hear the waves crashing as you went to sleep.  Some people pay $500/night for sleeping this close to the ocean, and we stayed here for free at several different locations around the island for 5 nights in a row!  Amazing!

Eating like the locals was a great way to enjoy fresh fish every day.  Elena and I don’t eat fish too often in our diet back in California.  But as they say, “when in Rome, do as the Romans do.”  We ate poke (basically small cube pieces of cut up tuna) of various seasonings and styles throughout our trip.  While I may have gained a few inches around the waistline, it is hard to resist fresh catches of the morning that are prepared and seasoned the same day.

After our 5th night of sleeping on the beach, it was time to fly to the Big Island of Hawaii.  Our trip to the Big Island entailed quite a lot more driving as the island is over twice the size of Kauai.  And our itinerary took us to all of this island’s corners.  Immediately after landing on the Big Island, we drove up Mauna Kea which is the highest point in the state of Hawaii at 13,803 feet (4,207 m).  In fact, measured from its base on the ocean floor, its elevation is 33,000 feet making it greater than the elevation of Mount Everest above sea level.  Going from the airport at Kona which is at sea level up to almost 14,000 feet in a matter of a few hours will certainly make anyone a little woozy.  But it happened to coincide with a beautiful sunset above the clouds which made it all worth it.

The next day, we went to Volcanos National Park in the southern end of the Big Island.  Unfortunately, there is no flowing lava or lava lakes that we could see when we were there due to the lava travelling the year before and destroying some nearby neighborhoods and flowing into the ocean, creating new landmass for the Big Island.  While the park was fun, it would probably be more fun on a future adventure if we did more research to time it so that we’re there when lava is actually present in the national park.

The last significant highlight for me on the Big Island was getting to snorkel with Manta Rays late at night.  We did this on our last night in Hawaii and it was absolutely incredible!  Basically, you are given snorkel gear and are told to hang on to a floating device that has light spewing down into the water to attract plankton.  From there all it takes is a little luck to “manifest the Manta Fest.”  If you’re lucky, the Manta Rays are then hungry enough to swim by you and gobble up all the plankton they can before retreating back to the murky waters.  While this may seem scary, I can assure you it is completely safe and incredibly fun to watch such powerful creatures glide through the water with such ease.  If only we could glide through life as easy as the Manta Rays glide through water.

Hawaii was one of the last major domestic trips we wanted to do in the United States before leaving for our year of travel and we’re so excited that we got such a great experience exploring these tropical paradises of Kauai and Hawaii.

##### Money Saving Tips Used This Trip:
* Camp on select campground beaches in Kauai which can be incredibly cheap ($5/person/night for non-Hawaiian residents) or potentially free if they don’t stop by your tent to charge you.
* Hike the plethora of free hikes to do on the islands to beaches, canyons, cliff jumps, and waterfalls!
* Eat like the locals and get fresh poke and seafood from several notable grocery stores.
* Visit Kauai Coffee Company for free tours and samples of the largest coffee plantation in the U.S.
* Get free rum tasting and tour at Koloa Rum Company.
* Use National Parks pass for free entry into Volcanos National Park.
* Pay in cash for the Manta Ray tour in Kona, Hawaii.
